President Obama:
This weekend, I'm concluding a
trip to Asia whose purpose was
to open new markets for American
products in this fast-growing
part of the world.
The economic battle for
these markets is fierce,
and we're up against
strong competitors.
But as I've said many
times, America doesn't
play for second place.
The future we're fighting
for isn't as the world's
largest importer, consuming
products made elsewhere,
but as the world's largest
manufacturer of ideas and
goods sold around the world.
Opening new markets will not
only help America's businesses
create new jobs for
American workers.
It will also help us reduce our
deficits - because the single
greatest tool for getting
our fiscal house in order
is robust economic growth.
That kind of growth will require
ensuring that our students are
getting the best
education possible;
that we're on the cutting edge
of research and development;
and that we're rebuilding
our roads and railways,
runways and ports - so our
infrastructure is up to the
challenges of the 21st century.
Given the deficits that have
mounted up over the past decade,
we can't afford to make
these investments unless
we're also willing to
cut what we don't need.
That's why I've submitted to
Congress a plan for a three-year
budget freeze, and I'm prepared
to offer additional savings.
But as we work to
reform our budget,
Congress should also put
some skin in the game.
I agree with those Republican
and Democratic members of
Congress who've recently said
that in these challenging days,
we can't afford what
are called earmarks.
These are items inserted into
spending bills by members of
Congress without
adequate review.
Now, some of these earmarks
support worthy projects in
our local communities.
But many others do not.
We can't afford Bridges to
Nowhere like the one that
was planned a few
years back in Alaska.
Earmarks like these represent a
relatively small part of overall
federal spending.
But when it comes to signaling
our commitment to fiscal
responsibility, addressing them
would have an important impact.
As a Senator, I helped eliminate
anonymous earmarks and created
new measures of transparency so
Americans can better follow how
their tax dollars
are being spent.
As President, time and again,
I've called for new limitations
on earmarks.
We've reduced the cost of
earmarks by over $3 billion.
And we've put in place higher
standards of transparency by
putting as much information
as possible on earmarks.gov.
In fact, this week, we updated
the site with more information
about where last year's
earmarks were actually spent,
and made it easier to look up
Members of Congress and the
earmarks they fought for.
Today, we have a
chance to go further.
We have a chance to not
only shine a light on a bad
Washington habit that wastes
billions of taxpayer dollars,
but take a step towards
restoring public trust.
We have a chance to advance the
interests not of Republicans or
Democrats, but of
the American people;
to put our country on the
path of fiscal discipline
and responsibility that will
lead to a brighter economic
future for all.
And that's a future I hope we
can reach across party lines
to build together.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.